Documentation/Getting-Started/MaxGUI.md, before:

# MariaDB MaxScale MaxGUI Guide

[TOC]

# Introduction

_MaxGUI_ is a browser-based interface for MaxScale REST-API and query execution.

# Enabling MaxGUI

To enable MaxGUI in a testing mode, add `admin_host=0.0.0.0` and
`admin_secure_gui=false` under the `[maxscale]` section of the MaxScale
configuration file. Once enabled, MaxGUI will be available on port 8989:
`http://127.0.0.1:8989/`

## Securing the GUI

To make MaxGUI secure, set `admin_secure_gui=true` and configure both the
`admin_ssl_key` and `admin_ssl_cert` parameters.

Check the [Configuration Guide](./Configuration-Guide.md) for the parameter
documentation and read the _Configuration and Hardening_ section of the
[REST API tutorial](../Tutorials/REST-API-Tutorial.md) for instructions on
how to harden your MaxScale installation for production use.

# Authentication

MaxGUI cannot be used without providing credentials. MaxGUI uses
the same credentials as `maxctrl`, so by default, the username is
`admin` and the password is `mariadb`.

MaxGUI uses [JSON Web Tokens](https://jwt.io/introduction/) as the
authentication method for persisting the user's session.
If the _Remember me_ checkbox is ticked, the session will persist for
24 hours, otherwise, as soon as MaxGUI is closed, the session will expire.

To log out, simply click the username section in the top right corner of
the page header to access the logout menu.

# Features

## Dashboard page

The dashboard shows three graphs:

-   _Sessions_ graph illustrates the total number of current sessions
    updating every 10 seconds.

-   _Connections_ graph shows servers current connections
    updating every 10 seconds.

-   _Load_ graph shows the last second load of thread,
    which is updated every second.

Under the graphs section, there is tab navigation to switch
table view which contains overview information of the
following resources: all servers grouped by monitor, current sessions
and all services. The information of these resources are
updated every 10 seconds.

## Detail page

The monitor, server, and services resources have their own details page.
It can be accessed by clicking the resource name on the dashboard page.

On the details page, resource parameters as well as relationships
can be modified in the resource's parameters section.

Deletion of a resource or other actions can be done by clicking the
setting icon located next to the resource name.
For instance, clicking the setting icon on the Monitor detail page will
popup three icons allowing a monitor to be started, stopped, and deleted.

For Servers, the monitor relationship can be modified by hovering
over the rectangular _Monitor_ block section at the top of the page.

## SQL editor page
The query editor page can be accessed via the sidebar navigation menu.
If no active connection exists, a dialog to set up one is displayed.
A connection can target a server, service, or listener.

The query layout editor interface comprises the following sections:

### Worksheet tab bar
Located at the top of the page, users can create multiple connections
to perform parallel querying.
On the right side, there are buttons to save query to favorite,
open Query configuration dialog, and set the
page to full-screen mode.

### Taskbar
Located below the worksheet tab bar, this contains resource quick action
buttons on the left side and query action buttons on the right side.
* Resource quick action buttons are used to manage active
connections and active database.
* Query action buttons are used to run SQL statements, visualize
query result in graphs, and configure query settings.

### Schema sidebar
List databases, tables and columns of the server.
The list is fetched when needed and provided with
dedicated options which can be accessed by clicking the more
options (...) icon.
For example,  for table, it has options to _Preview Data_
and _View Details_ which internally executes `SELECT * FROM database.table_name`
and `DESCRIBE database.table_name`, respectively.

### SQL editor
* Writing SQL statements and executing all statements
or selected statements by using shortcut keys. In general, the editor
provides some of the most famous editor features of Visual Studio Code
* All the command palette can be shown by pressing F1 or right-click
on the editor to open the context menu and choose _Command Palette_

### Query result
Located at the bottom of the page, the result section is comprised of three
tabs which are _Results_, _Data Preview_ and _History/Favorite_
* The _Results_ tab shows the query results of the SQL statements from
the SQL editor.
* The _Data Preview_ contains two sub-tabs _DATA_ and _DETAILS_ showing
the results of _Preview Data_ and _View Details_, respectively.
* The _History/Favorite_ shows query history and favorite queries

Result tables can be filtered, sorted (only when total rows <= 10000), exported,
and grouped. The result can be exported as `json`, `csv` with a custom delimiter.

The table result can be converted to the vertical mode by clicking the _transform_ icon
on the right corner above the table. In addition, table columns visibility can be
toggled and resized.

### Query result visualization
Query result can be visualized into line, scatter, vertical bar, and horizontal
bar graphs. In order to see the graph, simply click the _graph_ icon next to
the _gear_ icon in the task bar, then fill in the inputs.

The graph can be resized by clicking the border of the pane and exported as `jpeg`
format with same ratio.

### DDL Editor
This editor helps to alter table easily which can be accessed by right-clicking the table
on [the schema sidebar](#schema-sidebar) and choose _Alter Table_.

### Current limitations
A connection is bound to a worksheet, so sessions querying of a connection is
not yet supported.
The hard limit rows of each result are set to 10000 rows. Though it can be increased,
it can cause MaxScale to run out of memory. In addition, pagination of the query result
set is not supported. To work around this, use LIMIT offset, row_count to navigate
through the result set.

## Logs Viewer
To access logs viewer, clicking the gear icon in the sidebar navigation
and choose _MaxScale Logs_ tab.

## Resource creation

A resource can be created by clicking the _+ Create New_ button at
the top right corner of the dashboard or the detail page.

*Note*: Resources that depend on a module can be created only if that
module has been loaded by MaxScale.

## Viewing and modifying Maxscale parameters

MaxScale parameters can be viewed and modified at runtime on the Settings
page, which can be accessed by clicking the gear icon in the sidebar
navigation.

## Global search

The global search input located next to the _+ Create New_ button can be
used for searching for keywords in tables.

Commit message:

Update MaxGUI query editor limitation

Documentation/Getting-Started/MaxGUI.md, after:

# MariaDB MaxScale MaxGUI Guide

[TOC]

# Introduction

_MaxGUI_ is a browser-based interface for MaxScale REST-API and query execution.

# Enabling MaxGUI

To enable MaxGUI in a testing mode, add `admin_host=0.0.0.0` and
`admin_secure_gui=false` under the `[maxscale]` section of the MaxScale
configuration file. Once enabled, MaxGUI will be available on port 8989:
`http://127.0.0.1:8989/`

## Securing the GUI

To make MaxGUI secure, set `admin_secure_gui=true` and configure both the
`admin_ssl_key` and `admin_ssl_cert` parameters.

Check the [Configuration Guide](./Configuration-Guide.md) for the parameter
documentation and read the _Configuration and Hardening_ section of the
[REST API tutorial](../Tutorials/REST-API-Tutorial.md) for instructions on
how to harden your MaxScale installation for production use.

# Authentication

MaxGUI cannot be used without providing credentials. MaxGUI uses
the same credentials as `maxctrl`, so by default, the username is
`admin` and the password is `mariadb`.

MaxGUI uses [JSON Web Tokens](https://jwt.io/introduction/) as the
authentication method for persisting the user's session.
If the _Remember me_ checkbox is ticked, the session will persist for
24 hours, otherwise, as soon as MaxGUI is closed, the session will expire.

To log out, simply click the username section in the top right corner of
the page header to access the logout menu.

# Features

## Dashboard page

The dashboard shows three graphs:

-   _Sessions_ graph illustrates the total number of current sessions
    updating every 10 seconds.

-   _Connections_ graph shows servers current connections
    updating every 10 seconds.

-   _Load_ graph shows the last second load of thread,
    which is updated every second.

Under the graphs section, there is tab navigation to switch
table view which contains overview information of the
following resources: all servers grouped by monitor, current sessions
and all services. The information of these resources are
updated every 10 seconds.

## Detail page

The monitor, server, and services resources have their own details page.
It can be accessed by clicking the resource name on the dashboard page.

On the details page, resource parameters as well as relationships
can be modified in the resource's parameters section.

Deletion of a resource or other actions can be done by clicking the
setting icon located next to the resource name.
For instance, clicking the setting icon on the Monitor detail page will
popup three icons allowing a monitor to be started, stopped, and deleted.

For Servers, the monitor relationship can be modified by hovering
over the rectangular _Monitor_ block section at the top of the page.

## SQL editor page
The query editor page can be accessed via the sidebar navigation menu.
If no active connection exists, a dialog to set up one is displayed.
A connection can target a server, service, or listener.

The query layout editor interface comprises the following sections:

### Worksheet tab bar
Located at the top of the page, users can create multiple connections
to perform parallel querying.
On the right side, there are buttons to save query to favorite,
open Query configuration dialog, and set the
page to full-screen mode.

### Taskbar
Located below the worksheet tab bar, this contains resource quick action
buttons on the left side and query action buttons on the right side.
* Resource quick action buttons are used to manage active
connections and active database.
* Query action buttons are used to run SQL statements, visualize
query result in graphs, and configure query settings.

### Schema sidebar
List databases, tables and columns of the server.
The list is fetched when needed and provided with
dedicated options which can be accessed by clicking the more
options (...) icon.
For example,  for table, it has options to _Preview Data_
and _View Details_ which internally executes `SELECT * FROM database.table_name`
and `DESCRIBE database.table_name`, respectively.

### SQL editor
* Writing SQL statements and executing all statements
or selected statements by using shortcut keys. In general, the editor
provides some of the most famous editor features of Visual Studio Code
* All the command palette can be shown by pressing F1 or right-click
on the editor to open the context menu and choose _Command Palette_

### Query result
Located at the bottom of the page, the result section is comprised of three
tabs which are _Results_, _Data Preview_ and _History/Favorite_
* The _Results_ tab shows the query results of the SQL statements from
the SQL editor.
* The _Data Preview_ contains two sub-tabs _DATA_ and _DETAILS_ showing
the results of _Preview Data_ and _View Details_, respectively.
* The _History/Favorite_ shows query history and favorite queries

Result tables can be filtered, sorted (only when total rows <= 10000), exported,
and grouped. The result can be exported as `json`, `csv` with a custom delimiter.

The table result can be converted to the vertical mode by clicking the _transform_ icon
on the right corner above the table. In addition, table columns visibility can be
toggled and resized.

### Query result visualization
Query result can be visualized into line, scatter, vertical bar, and horizontal
bar graphs. In order to see the graph, simply click the _graph_ icon next to
the _gear_ icon in the task bar, then fill in the inputs.

The graph can be resized by clicking the border of the pane and exported as `jpeg`
format with same ratio.

### DDL Editor
This editor helps to alter table easily which can be accessed by right-clicking the table
on [the schema sidebar](#schema-sidebar) and choose _Alter Table_.

### Current limitations
A connection is bound to a worksheet, so sessions querying of a connection is
not yet supported.
The hard limit rows of each result are set to 10000 rows which means
MaxScale returns 10000 rows regardless value of the LIMIT clause. In addition,
`LIMIT` is not automatically injected into statements written in the SQL editor.

## Logs Viewer
To access logs viewer, clicking the gear icon in the sidebar navigation
and choose _MaxScale Logs_ tab.

## Resource creation

A resource can be created by clicking the _+ Create New_ button at
the top right corner of the dashboard or the detail page.

*Note*: Resources that depend on a module can be created only if that
module has been loaded by MaxScale.

## Viewing and modifying Maxscale parameters

MaxScale parameters can be viewed and modified at runtime on the Settings
page, which can be accessed by clicking the gear icon in the sidebar
navigation.

## Global search

The global search input located next to the _+ Create New_ button can be
used for searching for keywords in tables.
