Documentation/Tutorials/MariaDB-Replication-Connection-Routing-Tutorial.md, before:

# Connection Routing with MariaDB Replication

# Environment & Solution Space

The object of this tutorial is to have a system that has two ports available,
one for write connections to the database cluster and the other for read
connections to the database.

## Setting up MariaDB MaxScale

The first part of this tutorial is covered in [MariaDB MaxScale Tutorial](MaxScale-Tutorial.md).
Please read it and follow the instructions for setting up MariaDB MaxScale with
the type of cluster you want to use.

Once you have MariaDB MaxScale installed and the database users created, we can
create the configuration file for MariaDB MaxScale.

## Creating Your MariaDB MaxScale Configuration

MariaDB MaxScale reads its configuration from `/etc/maxscale.cnf`. A template
configuration is provided with the MaxScale installation.

A global, `[maxscale]`, section is included within every MariaDB MaxScale
configuration file; this is used to set the values of various MariaDB MaxScale
wide parameters, perhaps the most important of these is the number of threads
that MariaDB MaxScale will use to handle client requests.

```
[maxscale]
threads=4
```

Since we are using MariaDB Replication and connection routing we want two
different ports to which the client application can connect; one that will be
directed to the current master within the replication cluster and another that
will load balance between the slaves. To achieve this within MariaDB MaxScale we
need to define two services in the ini file; one for the read/write operations
that should be executed on the master server and another for connections to one
of the slaves. Create a section for each in your MariaDB MaxScale configuration
file and set the type to service, the section names are the names of the
services themselves and should be meaningful to the administrator. Avoid using
whitespace in the section names.

```
[Write-Service]
type=service

[Read-Service]
type=service

```

The router for these two sections is identical, the readconnroute module, also
the services should be provided with the list of servers that will be part of
the cluster. The server names given here are actually the names of server
sections in the configuration file and not the physical hostnames or addresses
of the servers.

```
[Write-Service]
type=service
router=readconnroute
servers=dbserv1, dbserv2, dbserv3

[Read-Service]
type=service
router=readconnroute
servers=dbserv1, dbserv2, dbserv3
```

In order to instruct the router to which servers it should route we must add
router options to the service. The router options are compared to the status
that the monitor collects from the servers and used to restrict the eligible set
of servers to which that service may route. In our case we use the two options
master and slave for our two services.

```
[Write-Service]
type=service
router=readconnroute
router_options=master
servers=dbserv1, dbserv2, dbserv3

[Read-Service]
type=service
router=readconnroute
router_options=slave
servers=dbserv1, dbserv2, dbserv3
```

The final step in the services section is to add the username and password that
will be used to populate the user data from the database cluster. There are two
options for representing the password, either plain text or encrypted passwords
may be used.  In order to use encrypted passwords a set of keys must be
generated that will be used by the encryption and decryption process. To
generate the keys use the `maxkeys` command and pass the name of the secrets
file in which the keys are stored.

```
maxkeys /var/lib/maxscale/.secrets
```

Once the keys have been created the maxpasswd command can be used to generate
the encrypted password.

```
maxpasswd plainpassword
96F99AA1315BDC3604B006F427DD9484
```

The username and password, either encrypted or plain text, are stored in the
service section using the user and passwd parameters.

```
[Write-Service]
type=service
router=readconnroute
router_options=master
servers=dbserv1, dbserv2, dbserv3
user=maxscale
passwd=96F99AA1315BDC3604B006F427DD9484

[Read-Service]
type=service
router=readconnroute
router_options=slave
servers=dbserv1, dbserv2, dbserv3
user=maxscale
passwd=96F99AA1315BDC3604B006F427DD9484
```

This completes the definitions required by the services, however listening ports
must be associated with the services in order to allow network connections. This
is done by creating a series of listener sections. These sections again are
named for the convenience of the administrator and should be of type listener
with an entry labeled service which contains the name of the service to
associate the listener with. Each service may have multiple listeners.

```
[Write-Listener]
type=listener
service=Write-Service

[Read-Listener]
type=listener
service=Read-Service
```

A listener must also define the protocol module it will use for the incoming
network protocol, currently this must be the `MariaDBClient` protocol for all
database listeners. The listener must also supply the network port to listen on.

```
[Write-Listener]
type=listener
service=Write-Service
protocol=MariaDBClient
port=4306

[Read-Listener]
type=listener
service=Read-Service
protocol=MariaDBClient
port=4307
```

An address parameter may be given if the listener is required to bind to a
particular network address when using hosts with multiple network addresses. The
default behavior is to listen on all network interfaces.

## Configuring the Monitor and Servers

The next step is the configuration of the monitor and the servers that the
service uses. This is process described in the
[Configuring MariaDB Monitor](Configuring-MariaDB-Monitor.md)
document.

## Configuring the Administrative Interface

The final stage in the configuration is to add the option service which is used
by the maxadmin command to connect to MariaDB MaxScale for monitoring and
administration purposes. This creates a service section and a listener section.

```
[CLI]
type=service
router=cli

[CLI-Listener]
type=listener
service=CLI
protocol=maxscaled
socket=default
```

## Starting MariaDB MaxScale

Upon completion of the configuration process MariaDB MaxScale is ready to be
started for the first time. For newer systems that use systemd, use the _systemctl_ command.

```
sudo systemctl start maxscale
```

For older SysV systems, use the _service_ command.

```
sudo service maxscale start
```

If MaxScale fails to start, check the error log in `/var/log/maxscale/` to see
if any errors are detected in the configuration file. The `maxadmin` command may
be used to confirm that MariaDB MaxScale is running and the services, listeners
etc have been correctly configured.

```
% sudo maxadmin list services

Services.
--------------------------+----------------------+--------+---------------
Service Name              | Router Module        | #Users | Total Sessions
--------------------------+----------------------+--------+---------------
Read Service              | readconnroute        |      1 |     1
Write Service             | readconnroute        |      1 |     1
CLI                       | cli                  |      2 |     2
--------------------------+----------------------+--------+---------------

% sudo maxadmin list servers

Servers.
-------------------+-----------------+-------+-------------+--------------------
Server             | Address         | Port  | Connections | Status
-------------------+-----------------+-------+-------------+--------------------
dbserv1            | 192.168.2.1     |  3306 |           0 | Running, Slave
dbserv2            | 192.168.2.2     |  3306 |           0 | Running, Master
dbserv3            | 192.168.2.3     |  3306 |           0 | Running, Slave
-------------------+-----------------+-------+-------------+--------------------

% sudo maxadmin list listeners

Listeners.
---------------------+--------------------+-----------------+-------+--------
Service Name         | Protocol Module    | Address         | Port  | State
---------------------+--------------------+-----------------+-------+--------
Read Service         | MariaDBClient      | *               |  4307 | Running
Write Service        | MariaDBClient      | *               |  4306 | Running
CLI                  | maxscaled          | localhost       |  6603 | Running
---------------------+--------------------+-----------------+-------+--------
```

MariaDB MaxScale is now ready to start accepting client connections and routing
them to the cluster. More options may be found in the
[Configuration Guide](../Getting-Started/Configuration-Guide.md)
and in the router module documentation.

More detail on the use of `maxadmin` can be found in the
[MaxAdmin](../Reference/MaxAdmin.md) document.

Commit message:

Combine MaxAdmin tutorials
Combined all maxadmin related tutorials into one document. This removes
the duplication of documentation found in all tutorials.

Documentation/Tutorials/MariaDB-Replication-Connection-Routing-Tutorial.md, after:

# Connection Routing with MariaDB Replication

# Environment & Solution Space

The object of this tutorial is to have a system that has two ports available,
one for write connections to the database cluster and the other for read
connections to the database.

## Setting up MariaDB MaxScale

The first part of this tutorial is covered in [MariaDB MaxScale Tutorial](MaxScale-Tutorial.md).
Please read it and follow the instructions for setting up MariaDB MaxScale with
the type of cluster you want to use.

Once you have MariaDB MaxScale installed and the database users created, we can
create the configuration file for MariaDB MaxScale.

## Creating Your MariaDB MaxScale Configuration

MariaDB MaxScale reads its configuration from `/etc/maxscale.cnf`. A template
configuration is provided with the MaxScale installation.

A global, `[maxscale]`, section is included within every MariaDB MaxScale
configuration file; this is used to set the values of various MariaDB MaxScale
wide parameters, perhaps the most important of these is the number of threads
that MariaDB MaxScale will use to handle client requests.

```
[maxscale]
threads=4
```

Since we are using MariaDB Replication and connection routing we want two
different ports to which the client application can connect; one that will be
directed to the current master within the replication cluster and another that
will load balance between the slaves. To achieve this within MariaDB MaxScale we
need to define two services in the ini file; one for the read/write operations
that should be executed on the master server and another for connections to one
of the slaves. Create a section for each in your MariaDB MaxScale configuration
file and set the type to service, the section names are the names of the
services themselves and should be meaningful to the administrator. Avoid using
whitespace in the section names.

```
[Write-Service]
type=service

[Read-Service]
type=service

```

The router for these two sections is identical, the readconnroute module, also
the services should be provided with the list of servers that will be part of
the cluster. The server names given here are actually the names of server
sections in the configuration file and not the physical hostnames or addresses
of the servers.

```
[Write-Service]
type=service
router=readconnroute
servers=dbserv1, dbserv2, dbserv3

[Read-Service]
type=service
router=readconnroute
servers=dbserv1, dbserv2, dbserv3
```

In order to instruct the router to which servers it should route we must add
router options to the service. The router options are compared to the status
that the monitor collects from the servers and used to restrict the eligible set
of servers to which that service may route. In our case we use the two options
master and slave for our two services.

```
[Write-Service]
type=service
router=readconnroute
router_options=master
servers=dbserv1, dbserv2, dbserv3

[Read-Service]
type=service
router=readconnroute
router_options=slave
servers=dbserv1, dbserv2, dbserv3
```

The final step in the services section is to add the username and password that
will be used to populate the user data from the database cluster. There are two
options for representing the password, either plain text or encrypted passwords
may be used.  In order to use encrypted passwords a set of keys must be
generated that will be used by the encryption and decryption process. To
generate the keys use the `maxkeys` command and pass the name of the secrets
file in which the keys are stored.

```
maxkeys /var/lib/maxscale/.secrets
```

Once the keys have been created the maxpasswd command can be used to generate
the encrypted password.

```
maxpasswd plainpassword
96F99AA1315BDC3604B006F427DD9484
```

The username and password, either encrypted or plain text, are stored in the
service section using the user and passwd parameters.

```
[Write-Service]
type=service
router=readconnroute
router_options=master
servers=dbserv1, dbserv2, dbserv3
user=maxscale
passwd=96F99AA1315BDC3604B006F427DD9484

[Read-Service]
type=service
router=readconnroute
router_options=slave
servers=dbserv1, dbserv2, dbserv3
user=maxscale
passwd=96F99AA1315BDC3604B006F427DD9484
```

This completes the definitions required by the services, however listening ports
must be associated with the services in order to allow network connections. This
is done by creating a series of listener sections. These sections again are
named for the convenience of the administrator and should be of type listener
with an entry labeled service which contains the name of the service to
associate the listener with. Each service may have multiple listeners.

```
[Write-Listener]
type=listener
service=Write-Service

[Read-Listener]
type=listener
service=Read-Service
```

A listener must also define the protocol module it will use for the incoming
network protocol, currently this must be the `MariaDBClient` protocol for all
database listeners. The listener must also supply the network port to listen on.

```
[Write-Listener]
type=listener
service=Write-Service
protocol=MariaDBClient
port=4306

[Read-Listener]
type=listener
service=Read-Service
protocol=MariaDBClient
port=4307
```

An address parameter may be given if the listener is required to bind to a
particular network address when using hosts with multiple network addresses. The
default behavior is to listen on all network interfaces.

## Configuring the Monitor and Servers

The next step is the configuration of the monitor and the servers that the
service uses. This is process described in the
[Configuring MariaDB Monitor](Configuring-MariaDB-Monitor.md)
document.

## Configuring the Administrative Interface

The MaxAdmin configuration is described in the
[Configuring MaxAdmin](Configuring-MaxAdmin.md) document.

## Starting MariaDB MaxScale

Upon completion of the configuration process MariaDB MaxScale is ready to be
started for the first time. For newer systems that use systemd, use the _systemctl_ command.

```
sudo systemctl start maxscale
```

For older SysV systems, use the _service_ command.

```
sudo service maxscale start
```

If MaxScale fails to start, check the error log in `/var/log/maxscale/` to see
if any errors are detected in the configuration file. The `maxadmin` command may
be used to confirm that MariaDB MaxScale is running and the services, listeners
etc have been correctly configured.

```
% sudo maxadmin list services

Services.
--------------------------+----------------------+--------+---------------
Service Name              | Router Module        | #Users | Total Sessions
--------------------------+----------------------+--------+---------------
Read Service              | readconnroute        |      1 |     1
Write Service             | readconnroute        |      1 |     1
CLI                       | cli                  |      2 |     2
--------------------------+----------------------+--------+---------------

% sudo maxadmin list servers

Servers.
-------------------+-----------------+-------+-------------+--------------------
Server             | Address         | Port  | Connections | Status
-------------------+-----------------+-------+-------------+--------------------
dbserv1            | 192.168.2.1     |  3306 |           0 | Running, Slave
dbserv2            | 192.168.2.2     |  3306 |           0 | Running, Master
dbserv3            | 192.168.2.3     |  3306 |           0 | Running, Slave
-------------------+-----------------+-------+-------------+--------------------

% sudo maxadmin list listeners

Listeners.
---------------------+--------------------+-----------------+-------+--------
Service Name         | Protocol Module    | Address         | Port  | State
---------------------+--------------------+-----------------+-------+--------
Read Service         | MariaDBClient      | *               |  4307 | Running
Write Service        | MariaDBClient      | *               |  4306 | Running
CLI                  | maxscaled          | localhost       |  6603 | Running
---------------------+--------------------+-----------------+-------+--------
```

MariaDB MaxScale is now ready to start accepting client connections and routing
them to the cluster. More options may be found in the
[Configuration Guide](../Getting-Started/Configuration-Guide.md)
and in the router module documentation.

More detail on the use of `maxadmin` can be found in the
[MaxAdmin](../Reference/MaxAdmin.md) document.
